you
there are three reasons why people buy
sports cars the looks the performance
lastly the image well it's not about is
practicality
so forget how much shopping you can fit
in the booth and forget about how much
room there is in the back for the kids
it's already being referred to as the
ultimate petrol heads car a triumph of
driving enjoyment over pure power and
people have had plenty of time to
conjure up these superlatives as we've
known about the gt86 since it was first
unveiled in 2009 as the FT 86 concept
it's the creation of a joint venture
between Toyota and Subaru resulting in
two cars this and Subarus almost
identical BRZ
it's powered by a 2-liter turn to brake
horsepower flat four-cylinder boxer
engine developed by Subaru it's
naturally aspirated so no turbos or
superchargers the engines mounted in the
front and the drive goes to the back
wheels and it tips the scales at just
over one hour half tons it's almost the
same weight as a Toyota Yaris supermini
it's priced from twenty-five thousand
pounds and is being touted as a cheaper
alternative to more exotic performance
cars like the Porsche Cayman and Lotus
Elise rather than the Audi TTS and BMW
z4 s it's priced more closely to well is
that the case let's find out by pitting
it against our three criteria the gt86
is unmistakably a sports car low slung
it looks poised and full of intent it's
also clearly Japanese there are no soft
flowing lines or curved body panels like
you'd expect to see on European rivals
instead its angular and sharp like the
rear spoiler the front bumper and the
angry-looking headlights in standard
trim it wouldn't look out of place in a
fast and furious flick and we imagine it
would be popular among modifying fans
inside the Japanese feel is again hard
to miss it's clinical clean and
fuss-free
if not a little lacking in materials and
quality compared to some European
competitors but all the switches are in
easy reach the drivers display is clear
and race car like and the bucket seats
are much more comfortable than they
might look in all it certainly isn't a
pretty car by any stretch of the
imagination
it's not going to be taking many staff
parking spaces at Tony and guys but it
is original which is good you wouldn't
want to buy one and some mistake it for
an mx-5 would you so that's looks
covered let's move on to the funding
this cars all about driving enjoyment
and tides has done a great job at
bringing this to the surface in the
bends this thing is nothing short of
sublime the sport seats hold you in
position and they hunk you really load
down as you should be in a sports car
the steering itself is immediate and
precise and there's plenty of feedback
as well which is a little bit of a
surprise as this has got electronic
steering which has been slated when
introduced on other sports cars but it's
been perfected in the gt86 and is
beautifully weighted another shock is
the wheel and rubber combination you'd
expect a full-blooded sports car like
this to be kitted with oversized wheels
and wide tires but instead the wheels
are a modest 17 inches and the tires are
skinny in fact these are the same tires
you get fitted to a Prius so it expect
it to be pretty useless in the corners
right wrong the chassis so finely tuned
and steering so responsive you can
pretty much put the car where you want
to and at no point do you ever feel like
you're out of control standard ESC kicks
in if it gets too much out of shape and
in some cases quite harshly and if
you're a real seasoned driver you can
turn this off and we mean completely off
reports claim that Toyota had to twist a
few super arms to keep the engine turbo
free but it does feel like it can do
with one the power delivery is
consistent but perks up at around 7000
rpm meaning near limited driving for the
most thrilling experience and it doesn't
sound particularly great either despite
the two drain pipe sizing exhausts much
more impressive are the brakes and
6-speed manual gearbox both make you
forget this is a car that's priced
comparatively to a Ford Mondeo
more amazingly it's fairly comfortable -
I've been doing 100-mile commutes in
this car and felt fresh every time I've
got out of it as a package I can't think
of anything that delivers the same
smiles for the same amount of power but
what does this car say about the sort of
person who drives it I think it's
probably a gnat someone a bit older than
me perhaps some of these kids have left
home someone may be going through a
midlife crisis but I don't think it's
either a male or a female car I could
see either stepping out I think quite
professional maybe and quite a lot of
money probably young ish same good they
didn't have a family because they're not
mature facing the back probably someone
with money to burn a young professional
certainly when says a family car and
yeah perhaps on a bit flash I think it
kind of maybe
aging boyracer possibly a hairdresser
whose Delmar
so a mixture of opinion from people and
that tells you a lot
I think the gt86 will appeal to a broad
market of customers it's affordable
enough for young professionals but it's
not too garish or in-your-face which
will attract older buyers - it really is
a sports car for all ages and you can
have your opinion click on the link
below and joining the which conversation
about the gt86